CIE-4483 (#894)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/edge/update-bundle/migration-107-to-109.md

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}

Before copying the backup, ensure that there is sufficient disk space in your Edge 10.9 appliance. For example, in the Edge 10.9 appliance, if the size of the data disk is 75 GB and the size of the MongoDB backup is 100 GB, you must expand the size of the data disk to additional 100 GB before copying the MongoDB backup. For more information about disk size expansion, see [Expanding the disk size](/edge/operating-edge/#expanding-the-disk-size).

 {{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

Perform the following steps as a root user in your Edge 10.9 appliance.

1. Copy the backup folders from your Edge 10.7 appliance to the Edge 10.9 appliance using any file transfer tool, such as WINSCP, SCP, or FTP.

   Copy the backup folders to `/home/admin/migration_data/` in your Edge 10.9 appliance.

2. Backup the web applications in the Edge 10.9 appliance. To do this, first detect the IDs of the applications by using the following command:

   ```shell
   mongo management --quiet --eval 'db.cmdata.files.find({},{"_id":false, "metadata.id":true,"metadata.name":true})' | jq

>    

Author: Done.

   The command returns the name and ID of the application. For example:

>    

Author: Done.

   {
     "metadata": {
       "id": "112",
       "name": "cockpit.zip"
     }
   }
   {
     "metadata": {
       "id": "113",
       "name": "devicemanagement.zip"
     }
   }
   {
     "metadata": {
       "id": "114",
       "name": "administration.zip"
     }
   }
   {
     "metadata": {
       "id": "122",
       "name": "streaming-analytics-app.zip"
     }
   }
   ```

3. Download the web applications using the ID of the application by using the following command:

   ```shell
   mkdir -p /tmp/apps/

>    mongofiles -d management --prefix cmdata get  APP_ID -l /tmp/apps/APP_NAME.zip

Reviewer: is this a single command? if it's two, it should be "commands" above.
also missing a closing line for the code listing

   
   Here:
    - APP_ID refers to the ID of the application. For example, 112
    - APP_NAME refers to the name of the application. For example, devicemanagement.zip
   
   For example:
   mongofiles -d management --prefix cmdata get  112 -l /tmp/apps/cockpit.zip
   mongofiles -d management --prefix cmdata get  113 -l /tmp/apps/devicemanagement.zip
   mongofiles -d management --prefix cmdata get  114 -l /tmp/apps/administration.zip
   mongofiles -d management --prefix cmdata get  122 -l /tmp/apps/streaming-analytics-app.zip

>    ```

Reviewer: missing an opening line for the code listing for the example commands

>    {{< c8y-admon-important >}} Create a backup of the streaming-analytics-app.zip file separately.{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {{< c8y-admon-important >}}Create a backup of the *streaming-analytics-app.zip* file separately.{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}
```

4. Install the RPM package by using the following command:

   ```shell
   rpm -ivh http://mirror.centos.org/centos/7/os/x86_64/Packages/zip-3.0-11.el7.x86_64.rpm
   ```

   If your Edge appliance is not connected to the internet, ensure that the RPM package is available locally and run the following command:

   ```shell
   rpm -ivh zip-3.0-11.el7.x86_64.rpm
   ```

5. Prepare the applications for deployment by using the following commands:

   {{< c8y-admon-important >}}

>    Do not include the *streaming-analytics-app.zip* file in the ZIP package.

Reviewer: content should not be indented (contrary to the indentation of the admonition tags themselves).

Author: Done.

   {{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

    ```shell
    UI_VERSION=1009.0.14 #The Edge appliance UI version number. Must be in the format xxxx.x.x
    cd /tmp/apps
    zip package-cumulocity-$UI_VERSION.zip cockpit.zip devicemanagement.zip administration.zip #Do not include the streaming-analytics-app.zip file.
    chown karaf:karaf package-cumulocity-$UI_VERSION.zip
    zip $UI_VERSION.zip package-cumulocity-$UI_VERSION.zip
    chown karaf:karaf $UI_VERSION.zip
    ```

6. Restore the device ID of the Edge 10.7 appliance by using the following commands:

   ```shell
   DEVICE_ID="DEVICE_ID_OF_EDGE_10.7"
   
   curl -v --header "Content-Type: application/json" --request POST --data
   '{"device_id":"'$DEVICE_ID'"}' 127.0.0.1:3032/configuration/edge-agent
   
   systemctl restart edge-agent
   ```

7. Restore the MongoDB collections from the Edge 10.7 appliance by using the following command:

   ```shell
   mongorestore --drop --db TENANT_NAME PATH_TO_BACKED_UP_COLLECTION
   

>    Here:

Reviewer: might want to split into more code listings here

Author: Done.

    - PATH_TO_BACKED_UP_COLLECTION refers to the location of the 10.7 backup folders in your Edge 10.9 appliance.
   
   For example:
   mongorestore --drop --db edge /home/admin/migration_data/edge/
   mongorestore --drop --db management /home/admin/migration_data/management/
   mongorestore --drop --db docker /home/admin/migration_data/docker/
   ```

8. Restore the web applications of the Edge 10.9 appliance by using the following command:

   ```shell
   chown -R karaf:karaf /webapps/
   chown nginx:karaf /webapps
   cp -a /tmp/apps/$UI_VERSION.zip /webapps/2Install/
   

>    Wait for Karaf to install the applications. After the installation is complete, the $UI_VERSION.zip.installed file appears at /webapps/2Install

Reviewer: arguably not part of the code listing

Author: Done

   ```

> 9. Copy the `/etc/opcua` directory from the Edge 10.7 appliance to the same location on the Edge 10.9 appliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Copy the */etc/opcua* directory from the Edge 10.7 appliance to the same location on the Edge 10.9 appliance.
```

> 10. Copy the */var/lib/cumulocity-agent/credentials* file from the Edge 10.7 appliance to the same location on the Edge 10.9 appliance.

Author: We tried doing that before and the migration looked a little confusing. We want the customer to follow steps in the exact order and not deviate. So retaining the steps.

    - Upload the *streaming-analytics-app.zip* file as a web application.

    - Subscribe the Streaming Analytics application to the Edge tenant.

      {{< c8y-admon-important >}} To subscribe the application, the {{< management-tenant >}} user must have the "Tenant Manager" role.{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

    - Delete the Apama Analytics Builder and Apama EPL Apps applications.

    - Log in to the Edge tenant and verify the Streaming Analytics application.

Restoring the Streaming Analytics application completes the migration procedure. Note that the tenants from the Edge 10.9 installation are removed after the successful migration. You are now be able to log in using the Edge 10.7 user credentials.

Next, configure the Edge 10.9 appliance. For example, if you enabled microservices and configured NTP in the Edge 10.7 appliance, you must enable microservices and configure NTP in the Edge 10.9 appliance.

{{< c8y-admon-important >}} 

To enable the microservice hosting feature, the {{< management-tenant >}} user must have the "Tenant Manager" role. Use the 10.7 {{< management-tenant >}} admin credentials. By default, the credentials are sysadmin/sysadmin-pass.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

If enabling the microservice hosting feature fails, it may be due to a [Kubernetes limitation](https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K18352919). After resolving the issue, delete the kube-registry pod and wait for it to be recreated.

For more information about configuring the Edge 10.9 appliance, see [Configuring Cumulocity IoT Edge](/edge/configuration/).

### Sample scripts to automate the migration

> {{< company-sag >}} provides the `backup.sh` and `restore.sh` scripts for your reference. You may customize these scripts for your requirements and automate the migration process. These scripts are available for reference at:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< company-sag >}} provides the *backup.sh* and *restore.sh* scripts for your reference. You may customize these scripts for your requirements and automate the migration process. These scripts are available at:
```

- [backup.sh](/files/edge/backup.sh)

> - [restore.sh](/files/edge/restore.sh) - you must run the restore.sh script as a **root** user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [restore.sh](/files/edge/restore.sh) - you must run the *restore.sh* script as a root user.
```

- [restore_analytics.sh](/files/edge/restore_analytics.sh) - restores the Streaming Analytics application.

{{< c8y-admon-important >}} {{< company-sag >}} does not officially support these scripts. These scripts are only for your reference.{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

### Using the scripts

#### In 10.7 appliance

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Before the data back up, ensure that there is sufficient disk space to save the backup in your Edge 10.7 appliance. The MongoDB backup requires the same amount of space as the database. For example, if the size of the database is 100 GB, the MongoDB backup also requires 100 GB of disk space. You would need additional 100 GB of disk space to save the MongoDB backup in your Edge 10.7 appliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the data back up, ensure that there is sufficient disk space to save the backup in your Edge 10.7 appliance. The MongoDB backup requires the same amount of space as the database. For example, if the size of the database is 100 GB, the MongoDB backup also requires 100 GB of disk space. You need an additional 100 GB of disk space to save the MongoDB backup in your Edge 10.7 appliance.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

1. Run the following command to stop monitoring all the processes:

   ```shell
   monit unmonitor all
   ```

2. Stop the Karaf process by using the following command:

   ```shell
   sudo service cumulocity-core-karaf stop
   ```

3. Copy the `backup.sh` script to your Edge 10.7 appliance.

> 4. Run the `backup.sh` as a root user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the *backup.sh* as a root user.
```

   You can also run the script with the parameters:

   - OUTPUT_DIRECTORY: (optional) path to save the backup archive on the same file system.
   - ARCHIVE_PATH: (optional) path to save the backup archive on an external file system.

>     {{< c8y-admon-info >}}If you do not specify any parameter, the backup archive is saved at */tmp* directory. The */tmp* directory is located on the installation disk. If the installation disk has no space, the system could become unstable.{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< c8y-admon-info >}}If you do not specify any parameter, the backup archive is saved to the */tmp* directory. The */tmp* directory is located on the installation disk. If the installation disk has no space, the system can become unstable.{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}
```

    For example:

    ```shell
    ./backup.sh /home/admin/
    ```

   The script creates a ZIP archive file with the migration data in the OUTPUT_DIRECTORY.

5. Move the ZIP archive with the migration data to your Edge 10.9 appliance.

#### In 10.9 appliance

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}
Before copying the backup, ensure that there is sufficient disk space in your Edge 10.9 appliance. For example, in the Edge 10.9 appliance, if the size of the data disk is 75 GB and the size of the MongoDB backup is 100 GB, you must expand the size of the data disk to additional 100 GB before copying the MongoDB backup. For more information about disk size expansion, see [Expanding the disk size](/edge/operating-edge/#expanding-the-disk-size).
{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

1. Log in as a root user.

> 2. Copy the `restore.sh` and `restore_analytics.sh` scripts to your Edge 10.9 appliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Copy the *restore.sh* and *restore_analytics.sh* scripts to your Edge 10.9 appliance.
```

> 3. Run the `restore.sh` script with the parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the *restore.sh* script with the parameters:
```

   - ARCHIVE_PATH: path to the ZIP with 10.7 migration data
   - EXTRACTED_PATH: path to the folder with extracted migration data. It can also be an external drive.

    For example:

    ```shell
    ./restore.sh migration_data.tgz /home/admin/migration_data
    ```

>     The `restore.sh` script fails if your Edge appliance is not connected to the internet. In such cases, ensure that the RPM package is available locally, and replace the command `rpm -ivh http://mirror.centos.org/centos/7/os/x86_64/Packages/zip-3.0-11.el7.x86_64.rpm` with `rpm -ivh zip-3.0-11.el7.x86_64.rpm` in the `restore.sh` script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The *restore.sh* script fails if your Edge appliance is not connected to the internet. In such cases, ensure that the RPM package is available locally, and replace the command `rpm -ivh http://mirror.centos.org/centos/7/os/x86_64/Packages/zip-3.0-11.el7.x86_64.rpm` with `rpm -ivh zip-3.0-11.el7.x86_64.rpm` in the *restore.sh* script.
```

4. Run the `restore_analytics.sh` script. This script restores the Streaming Analytics application.

   ```shell
   ./restore_analytics.sh USERNAME PASSWORD /tmp/streaming-analytics-app.zip
   

>    Here:

Reviewer: arguable not part of the listing

Author: @rssag - could you please elaborate on this comment?

Author: Done.
